Although all the training, tuning and
aligning techniques you've explored can
help you build a great model for
your application.
There are some broader challenges with
large language models that can't be solved
by training alone.
Let's take a look at a few examples.
One issue is that the internal
knowledge held by a model cuts off at
the moment of pretraining.
For example, if you ask a model
that was trained in early 2022 who
the British Prime Minister is,
it will probably tell you Boris Johnson.
This knowledge is out of date.
The model does not know that Johnson
left office in late 2022 because that
event happened after its training.
Models can also struggle
with complex math.
If you prompt a model to behave like
a calculator, it may get the answer wrong,
depending on the difficulty
of the problem.
Here, you ask the model to
carry out a division problem.
The model returns a number close to
the correct answer, but it's incorrect.
Note the LLMs do not carry
out mathematical operations.
They are still just trying to predict the
next best token based on their training,
and as a result,
can easily get the answer wrong.
Lastly, one of the best known
problems of LLMs is their tendency
to generate text even when they
don't know the answer to a problem.
This is often called hallucination,
and here you can see the model clearly
making up a description of a nonexistent
plant, the Martian Dunetree.
Although there is still no
definitive evidence of life on Mars,
the model will happily tell you otherwise.
In this section, you'll learn about some
techniques that you can use to help your
LLM overcome these issues by connecting to
external data sources and applications.
You'll have a bit more work to do to be
able to connect your LLM to these external
components and fully integrate everything
for deployment within your application.
Your application must manage
the passing of user input to
the large language model and
the return of completions.
This is often done through some
type of orchestration library.
This layer can enable some powerful
technologies that augment and
enhance the performance
of the LLM at runtime.
By providing access to
external data sources or
connecting to existing APIs
of other applications.
One implementation example is Langchain,
which you'll learn more
about later in this lesson.
Let's start by considering how to
connect LLMs to external data sources.
Retrieval Augmented Generation, or
RAG for short, is a framework for
building LLM powered systems that
make use of external data sources.
And applications to overcome some
of the limitations of these models.
RAG is a great way to overcome
the knowledge cutoff issue and
help the model update its
understanding of the world.
While you could retrain
the model on new data,
this would quickly become very expensive.
And require repeated retraining to
regularly update the model with new
knowledge.
A more flexible and less expensive way
to overcome knowledge cutoffs is to
give your model access to additional
external data at inference time.
RAG is useful in any case where you want
the language model to have access to
data that it may not have seen.
This could be new information documents
not included in the original training
data, or proprietary knowledge stored in
your organization's private databases.
Providing your model with
external information,
can improve both the relevance and
accuracy of its completions.
Let's take a closer
look at how this works.
Retrieval augmented generation isn't
a specific set of technologies, but rather
a framework for providing LLMs access to
data they did not see during training.
A number of different implementations
exist, and the one you choose will depend
on the details of your task and the format
of the data you have to work with.
Here you'll walk through
the implementation discussed in one of
the earliest papers on RAG by researchers
at Facebook, originally published in 2020.
At the heart of this implementation is
a model component called the Retriever,
which consists of a query encoder and
an external data source.
The encoder takes
the user's input prompt and
encodes it into a form that can
be used to query the data source.
In the Facebook paper,
the external data is a vector store,
which we'll discuss in
more detail shortly.
But it could instead be a SQL database,
CSV files, or other data storage format.
These two components are trained
together to find documents within
the external data that are most
relevant to the input query.
The Retriever returns the best single or
group of documents from the data
source and combines the new information
with the original user query.
The new expanded prompt is then
passed to the language model,
which generates a completion
that makes use of the data.
Let's take a look at
a more specific example.
Imagine you are a lawyer using
a large language model to help you in
the discovery phase of a case.
A Rag architecture can help you ask
questions of a corpus of documents, for
example, previous court filings.
Here you ask the model about the plaintiff
named in a specific case number.
The prompt is passed to the query encoder,
which encodes the data in the same
format as the external documents.
And then searches for a relevant
entry in the corpus of documents.
Having found a piece of text that
contains the requested information,
the Retriever then combines the new
text with the original prompt.
The expanded prompt that now contains
information about the specific
case of interest is
then passed to the LLM.
The model uses the information in
the context of the prompt to generate
a completion that contains
the correct answer.
The use case you have seen
here is quite simple and
only returns a single piece of information
that could be found by other means.
But imagine the power of Rag to be able
to generate summaries of filings or
identify specific people, places and
organizations within the full
corpus of the legal documents.
Allowing the model to access information
contained in this external data
set greatly increases its utility for
this specific use case.
In addition to overcoming knowledge
cutoffs, rag also helps you avoid
the problem of the model hallucinating
when it doesn't know the answer.
RAG architectures can be used to integrate
multiple types of external information
sources.
You can augment large language models
with access to local documents,
including private wikis and
expert systems.
Rag can also enable access to the Internet
to extract information posted on web
pages, for example, Wikipedia.
By encoding the user input
prompt as a SQL query,
RAG can also interact with databases.
Another important data storage
strategy is a Vector Store,
which contains vector
representations of text.
This is a particularly useful data format
for language models, since internally
they work with vector representations
of language to generate text.
Vector stores enable a fast and
efficient kind of relevant
search based on similarity.
Note that implementing RAG is a little
more complicated than simply adding text
into the large language model.
There are a couple of key
considerations to be aware of,
starting with the size
of the context window.
Most text sources are too long to fit into
the limited context window of the model,
which is still at most just
a few thousand tokens.
Instead, the external data sources
are chopped up into many chunks,
each of which will fit
in the context window.
Packages like Langchain can
handle this work for you.
Second, the data must be available
in a format that allows for
easy retrieval of the most relevant text.
Recall that large language models
don't work directly with text, but
instead create vector representations
of each token in an embedding space.
These embedding vectors allow the LLM
to identify semantically related words
through measures such
as cosine similarity,
which you learned about earlier.
Rag methods take the small chunks of
external data and process them through
the large language model,
to create embedding vectors for each.
These new representations of the data
can be stored in structures called
vector stores, which allow for
fast searching of datasets and
efficient identification of
semantically related text.
Vector databases are a particular
implementation of a vector store
where each vector is
also identified by a key.
This can allow, for instance,
the text generated by RAG to
also include a citation for
the document from which it was received.
So you've seen how access to external data
sources can help a model overcome limits
to its internal knowledge.
By providing up to date relevant
information and avoiding hallucinations,
you can greatly improve the experience of
using your application for your users.
Next, we'll explore a technique that can
improve a model's ability to reason and
make plans important steps when using
an LLM to power an application.
Join me in the next video to learn more.